# 2023-09-28 Thu

## Log

https://lib.rs/crates/test-case for parameterized tests in Rust.

[[The Matasano Crypto Challenges]] https://blog.pinboard.in/2013/04/the_matasano_crypto_challenges/
+ Most of the challenges take the form of practical attacks against common vulnerabilities, many of which will be sadly familiar to you from your own web apps.
+ The challenges start with some basic string manipulation tasks, but after that they are grouped by theme. In most cases, you first implement something, then break it in several enlightening ways.
+ Crypto topics
	+ basic substitution and XOR
	+ pseudo-random number generators
	+ stream and block ciphers, and their modes of operation
	+ message authentication codes
	+ Diffie-Hellman key exchange
	+ RSA (public-key cryptography)
+ math
	+ working in base 2 and base 16
	+ modular arithmetic
	+ discrete exponentiation
	+ Hamming distance (& friends)
	+ primality testing
	+ basic stats (standard deviation & variance)
+ I would compare the experience to having only ever read cookbooks and watched cooking shows, and then being asked to fry an egg. You know exactly what to do... in principle.
+ The goal here is to convert message-board levels of understanding into actual knowledge, and the only way that works is if you bang your head on the task without seeing how anyone else has done it.
+ Surprising takeaways
	+ How practical these attacks were. A lot of stuff that I knew was weak in principle (like re-using a nonce or using a timestamp as a 'random' seed) turns out to be crackable within seconds by an art major writing crappy Python.
	+ There is no difference, from the attacker's point of view, between gross and tiny errors. Both of them are equally exploitable. In at least three challenges, the mere fact of getting distinguishable error messages was enough to recover the entire message.
		+ This lesson is very hard to internalize. In the real world, if you build a bookshelf and forget to tighten one of the screws all the way, it does not burn down your house
	+ Timing attacks are much more effective than I imagined.
	+ Someone who can muck with your ciphertext is halfway to reading it, possibly with your secret key for dessert.
	+ Some mistakes are incredibly non-obvious. I had no idea you had to super-carefully pad RSA, for example.
	+ Even on a laptop, in 10 minutes you can do a terrifying amount of computation.
+ Specific lessons
	+ Keep meaningful data out of tokens (like cookies) that I hand out to clients. Use random values keyed against a database, memory store, or wherever.
	+ If I have to put data in tokens, include an integrity check, and pay a real crypto person to vet it.
	+ I must never seed a PRNG with a timestamp. I used to do this with microsecond precision thinking I was being clever. Then I went ahead and wrote a script that guessed the seed value in just a few seconds, and now I will never do that again.
	+ Use constant-time string comparisons when testing incoming data against some target value for authentication purposes. This is easy enough to do in most languages to make it cheap insurance.
	+ Anything related to authentication should only fail in one way. I must not provide distinguishable errors to the user.
	+ If possible, find a way to log the fact that someone is making a lot of weird queries against my site. For extra points, try not to make the logger itself hackable.
	+ No third-party javascript. I hated it already, now I hate it more.
	+ Cut off one of my fingers each time I re-use a nonce.

Cryptopals: https://cryptopals.com/
## Appendix
