1. Projects/Learning MongoDB/MongoDB Aggregation Pipelines.md, before:

---
created: 2023-08-25 14:51
alias: 
---
#### Summary
+ 

----
# [[MongoDB]] Aggregation Pipelines

An aggregation pipeline consists of one or more stages that process documents:
- Each stage performs an operation on the input documents. For example, a stage can filter documents, group documents, and calculate values.
- The documents that are output from a stage are passed to the next stage.
- An aggregation pipeline can return results for groups of documents. For example, return the total, average, maximum, and minimum values.

> 💡 Aggregation pipelines run with the [`db.collection.aggregate()`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.collection.aggregate/#mongodb-method-db.collection.aggregate) method do not modify documents in a collection, unless the pipeline contains a [`$merge`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/merge/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-merge) or [`$out`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/out/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-out) stage.

## Examples

### Quantities of medium pizza types

```js
db.orders.aggregate( [
   // Stage 1: Filter pizza order documents by pizza size
   {
      $match: { size: "medium" }
   },
   // Stage 2: Group remaining documents by pizza name and calculate total quantity
   {
      $group: { _id: "$name", totalQuantity: { $sum: "$quantity" } }
   }
] )
```

The [`$match`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/match/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-match) stage:
- Filters the pizza order documents to pizzas with a `size` of `medium`.
- Passes the remaining documents to the [`$group`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/group/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-group) stage.

The [`$group`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/group/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-group) stage:
- Groups the remaining documents by pizza `name`.
- Uses [`$sum`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/sum/#mongodb-group-grp.-sum) to calculate the total order `quantity` for each pizza `name`. The total is stored in the `totalQuantity` field returned by the aggregation pipeline.

### Total order value per date, and average order quantity:

```js
db.orders.aggregate( [
   // Stage 1: Filter pizza order documents by date range
   {
      $match:
      {
         "date": { $gte: new ISODate( "2020-01-30" ), $lt: new ISODate( "2022-01-30" ) }
      }
   },
   // Stage 2: Group remaining documents by date and calculate results
   {
      $group:
      {
         _id: { $dateToString: { format: "%Y-%m-%d", date: "$date" } },
         totalOrderValue: { $sum: { $multiply: [ "$price", "$quantity" ] } },
         averageOrderQuantity: { $avg: "$quantity" }
      }
   },
   // Stage 3: Sort documents by totalOrderValue in descending order
   {
      $sort: { totalOrderValue: -1 }
   }
 ] )
```



----

## References
+ https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/aggregation-pipeline/#std-label-aggregation-pipeline

Commit message:

Backup: 2023-08-25 16:10:20
Affected files:
1. Projects/Learning MongoDB/MongoDB Aggregation Pipelines.md

1. Projects/Learning MongoDB/MongoDB Aggregation Pipelines.md, after:

---
created: 2023-08-25 14:51
alias: 
---
#### Summary
+ 

----
# [[MongoDB]] Aggregation Pipelines

An aggregation pipeline consists of one or more stages that process documents:
- Each stage performs an operation on the input documents. For example, a stage can filter documents, group documents, and calculate values.
- The documents that are output from a stage are passed to the next stage.
- An aggregation pipeline can return results for groups of documents. For example, return the total, average, maximum, and minimum values.

> 💡 Aggregation pipelines run with the [`db.collection.aggregate()`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.collection.aggregate/#mongodb-method-db.collection.aggregate) method do not modify documents in a collection, unless the pipeline contains a [`$merge`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/merge/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-merge) or [`$out`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/out/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-out) stage.

## Examples

### Quantities of medium pizza types

```js
db.orders.aggregate( [
   // Stage 1: Filter pizza order documents by pizza size
   {
      $match: { size: "medium" }
   },
   // Stage 2: Group remaining documents by pizza name and calculate total quantity
   {
      $group: { _id: "$name", totalQuantity: { $sum: "$quantity" } }
   }
] )
```

The [`$match`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/match/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-match) stage:
- Filters the pizza order documents to pizzas with a `size` of `medium`.
- Passes the remaining documents to the [`$group`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/group/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-group) stage.

The [`$group`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/group/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-group) stage:
- Groups the remaining documents by pizza `name`.
- Uses [`$sum`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/sum/#mongodb-group-grp.-sum) to calculate the total order `quantity` for each pizza `name`. The total is stored in the `totalQuantity` field returned by the aggregation pipeline.

### Total order value per date, and average order quantity:

```js
db.orders.aggregate( [
   // Stage 1: Filter pizza order documents by date range
   {
      $match:
      {
         "date": { $gte: new ISODate( "2020-01-30" ), $lt: new ISODate( "2022-01-30" ) }
      }
   },
   // Stage 2: Group remaining documents by date and calculate results
   {
      $group:
      {
         _id: { $dateToString: { format: "%Y-%m-%d", date: "$date" } },
         totalOrderValue: { $sum: { $multiply: [ "$price", "$quantity" ] } },
         averageOrderQuantity: { $avg: "$quantity" }
      }
   },
   // Stage 3: Sort documents by totalOrderValue in descending order
   {
      $sort: { totalOrderValue: -1 }
   }
 ] )
```

## Details

+ A stage does not have to output 1:1 for each input document -- it may produce more documents or filter them out.
+ The same stage may appear multiple times in the pipeline, except [`$out`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/out/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-out), [`$merge`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/merge/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-merge), and [`$geoNear`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/geoNear/#mongodb-pipeline-pipe.-geoNear).
+ To calculate averages and perform other calculations in a stage, use [aggregation expressions](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/meta/aggregation-quick-reference/#std-label-aggregation-expressions) that specify [aggregation operators](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/#std-label-aggregation-expression-operators).



----

## References
+ https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/aggregation-pipeline/#std-label-aggregation-pipeline
