Permanent/Data Normalization.md, before:

# Data Normalization
> Created: 2023-05-18 19:05

_Normalization_ is the idea of de-duplication -- you don't use free text, and instead use identified objects to represent stored data, with one object for each separate instance of that data. For example, instead of having `town` be a text field, you link it to a `Towns` table which contains the list of allowed towns.

## Advantages

+ Consistent style and spelling
+ Avoids ambiguity
+ Ease of updating if it ever needs to be changed: Bangalore → Bengaluru
+ Localization support: you can translate the entire table at once.
+ Better search.

## Disadvantages

+ Read time performance. If you want data that requires summarizing info in the table, or requires linking through to a foreign table to get the info, the joins / summarization queries can take much longer than just reading from a duplicate, single field that contains the data directly.
+ 

----

## References
1. [[Designing Data Intensive Applications - Data Models and Query Languages]]

Commit message:

Add normalization, denormalization, data models notes

Permanent/Data Normalization.md, after:

# Data Normalization
> Created: 2023-05-18 19:05

_Normalization_ is the idea of de-duplication -- you don't use free text, and instead use identified objects to represent stored data, with one object for each separate instance of that data. For example, instead of having `town` be a text field, you link it to a `Towns` table which contains the list of allowed towns.

## Advantages

+ Consistent style and spelling
+ Avoids ambiguity
+ Ease of updating if it ever needs to be changed: Bangalore → Bengaluru
+ Localization support: you can translate the entire table at once.
+ Better search.

## Disadvantages

+ Read time performance. If you want data that requires summarizing info in the table, or requires linking through to a foreign table to get the info, the joins / summarization queries can take much longer than just reading from a duplicate, single field that contains the data directly.
+ Can make the schema much more complex and hard to change. In a [[Permanent/Denormalization|denormalized]] setting, we can keep the data that we want in a relatively freeform manner.
	+ Consider for example, storing an address. Addresses are complicated by nature -- every area/country/city has different methods and conventions. To store the components of the address in a normalized way can make the schema _extremely_ complicated to create and change.


----

## References
1. [[Designing Data Intensive Applications - Data Models and Query Languages]]
2. Bard
