# 2024-09-05 Thu

## Log

https://youtu.be/vHbvbwSEYGo
+ It's cumbersome to store events in a DB. We can rather store it in a log.
	+ ordered sequence of the events
+ easy to build logs at scale.
+ Kafka is a system for managing these logs. This log is called Topic = ordered collection of events stored in a durable way
	+ replicated, stored on disk
+ topics can store data for indefinite periods
	+ can be enormous, they don't have to be small
	+ persistent records of events
+ event = thing happening in the business
+ event -> stored in topic
+ microservices can consume a message from a topic, write to another topic
+ realtime analysis by consuming a topic stream
+ Kafka Connect = pluggable modules to connect various systems to and from topics
+ allows grouping, aggregating, filtering etc. using Kafka Streams
	+ scalable and fault-tolerant way

https://kafka.apache.org/intro
+ brokers
	+ servers that handle storage
	+ scalable and fault tolerant: Kafka cluster server fails -> other servers take over the work
+ event
	+ key + value + timestamp + optional metadata
+ producer / consumer
	+ publisher and subscriber of events
	+ decoupled, agnostic to each other. Producers never need to wait
+ topics
	+ where the events are stored. think of it like a folder in filesystem
	+ multi-producer and consumer
	+ events are not deleted after consumption, can be read multiple times
		+ define how long Kafka should retain per-topic
+ partitions
	+ topic is spread over number of "buckets" over different brokers, for scalability
	+ event published -> appended to a topic's partition
	+ events with the same key written to the same partition
		+ any consumer of the topic reads a particular partition's events in the exact same order as they were written
+ replicas
	+ every topic can be replicated, even across georegions
	+ common replication factor = 3
	+ performed at the level of topic-partitions
+ APIs
	+ Admin
	+ Producer
	+ Consumer
	+ Streams = stream processing, aggregation, joins etc.
	+ Connect = reusable data import/export connectors