0. Journal/2023-10-18.md, before:

# 2023-10-18 Wed

## Log

[[ScyllaDB P99 Conf]]
+ Quantifying the Performance Impact of Shard-per-core Architecture
	+ speeding up networking in linux
	+ shards per core architecture
		+ ![[Pasted image 20231018211825.png]]
		+ traditional stacks suffer lock contention, cache contention, NUMA unfriendly
	+ scale up before you scale out
		+ why? more machines means more maintenance, for upgrades etc. more container overhead etc.
	+ ~~"Nodes must be small, in case they fail"~~
		+ doesn't!
		+ takes constant time to replace/add/remove a node
+ Jon Haddad: Distributed System Performance Troubleshooting Like You've Been Doing It for 20 Years
	+ seeing a performance problem
		+ Don't panic!
		+ don't just blame (the database)
			+ don't rush to conclusions
	+ methodology
		+ rethink assumptions
		+ ask the right questions
			+ don't go with vague questions like "is it slow?"
			+ ask specifics, e.g. p50, p99.
			+ what does the latency measure exactly
			+ ask if anything else in the env changed
			+ is it on a subset of the machines?
		+ narrow down the source
		+ think about the bigger picture
			+ e.g. don't blame a single microservice
		+ have high observability
			+ distributed tracing ([Dapper](https://research.google/pubs/pub36356/))
			+ alternatives: OpenTelemetry, Honeycomb, Zipkin
		+ all machines or one machine?
			+ one query or all queries?
		+ setup good dashboards
			+ grafana
	+ Throughput, Latency and Errors
	+ for hardware: Utilization, Saturation and Error Rate
		+ https://www.brendangregg.com/usemethod.html
	+ understand your environment's limits
	+ profiling and flame graphs
		+ Linux: `perf`
		+ Java: async-profiler
	+ High-Level Rust for Backend Programming ~ Adam Chalmers
		+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloudbleed
		+ 

## Appendix

Commit message:

Backup: 2023-10-18 22:20:04
Affected files:
0. Journal/2023-10-18.md
Attachments/Pasted image 20231018221844.png

0. Journal/2023-10-18.md, after:

# 2023-10-18 Wed

## Log

[[ScyllaDB P99 Conf]]
+ Quantifying the Performance Impact of Shard-per-core Architecture
	+ speeding up networking in linux
	+ shards per core architecture
		+ ![[Pasted image 20231018211825.png]]
		+ traditional stacks suffer lock contention, cache contention, NUMA unfriendly
	+ scale up before you scale out
		+ why? more machines means more maintenance, for upgrades etc. more container overhead etc.
	+ ~~"Nodes must be small, in case they fail"~~
		+ doesn't!
		+ takes constant time to replace/add/remove a node
+ Jon Haddad: Distributed System Performance Troubleshooting Like You've Been Doing It for 20 Years
	+ seeing a performance problem
		+ Don't panic!
		+ don't just blame (the database)
			+ don't rush to conclusions
	+ methodology
		+ rethink assumptions
		+ ask the right questions
			+ don't go with vague questions like "is it slow?"
			+ ask specifics, e.g. p50, p99.
			+ what does the latency measure exactly
			+ ask if anything else in the env changed
			+ is it on a subset of the machines?
		+ narrow down the source
		+ think about the bigger picture
			+ e.g. don't blame a single microservice
		+ have high observability
			+ distributed tracing ([Dapper](https://research.google/pubs/pub36356/))
			+ alternatives: OpenTelemetry, Honeycomb, Zipkin
		+ all machines or one machine?
			+ one query or all queries?
		+ setup good dashboards
			+ grafana
	+ Throughput, Latency and Errors
	+ for hardware: Utilization, Saturation and Error Rate
		+ https://www.brendangregg.com/usemethod.html
	+ understand your environment's limits
	+ profiling and flame graphs
		+ Linux: `perf`
		+ Java: async-profiler
	+ High-Level Rust for Backend Programming ~ Adam Chalmers
		+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloudbleed
		+ autogenerate API schemas with Dropshot and OpenAPI
		+ Rust can be a high level programming language
			+ correctness, reliability, interop with high perf
			+ Rust backend prod https://zero2prod.com
		+ Perf and reliability are linked
			+ many backends don't need perf, just reliability
			+ but enough perf degradation can cause reliability degradation
		+ Tooling
			+ clippy, `cargo audit`, `cargo deny`
			+ Code generation with macros
		+ Keep 80% functional code, 20% imperative code
		+ Parallelism in Rust -- rule of thumb is Rayon is great for anything CPU-bound, Tokio is good for anything IO-bound.
		+ JSON + SQL gluing servers
			+ Serde for JSON
				+ autogenerating field names
				+ ![[Pasted image 20231018221844.png]]
			+ Diesel for SQL
				+ compile time correctness
				+ solves the dual-schema problem: SQL relations and proglang structs in sync
				+ automatically 

## Appendix
