# 2023-08-15 Tue

## Log


[[Blue Green Deployments]]
+ https://martinfowler.com/bliki/BlueGreenDeployment.html 2010
+ Have a completely automated deployment process.
+ Idea taken from the book Continuous Delivery, by Dave Farley and Jez Humble.
+ Deployment technique to minimize downtime
	+ Have two identical production environments, blue and green.
	+ Say blue is live. Do your final stage testing in green env.
	+ Once the software is working in the green environment, you switch the router so that all incoming requests go to the green environment - the blue one is now idle.
	+ Blue is the staging environment for the final testing step for your next deployment. When you are ready for your next release, you switch from green to blue in the same way that you did from blue to green earlier.
+ Rapid rollback
	+ if anything goes wrong you switch the router back to your blue environment. 
	+ To deal with missed transactions while Green was live, you may be able to feed transactions to both environments in such a way as to keep the blue environment as a backup when the green is live.
	+ Or you may be able to put the application in read-only mode before cut-over, run it for a while in read-only mode, and then switch it to read-write mode
+ Setups
	+ Need to be as identical as possible.
	+ e.g. different VMs running on the same (or different) hardware.
	+ Need to be easily switchable.
+ DBs (especially schema change) can be a challenge
	+ Separate the deployment of the schema change from application upgrade
	+ Upgrade the schema first ([[Database Refactoring]] https://databaserefactoring.com/) with backwards compatibility, deploy and check.
	+ Remember to remove the DB support for the old version after.
+ Name origins
	+ Daniel Terhorst-North and Jez Humble: https://gitlab.com/-/snippets/1846041
	+ We thought about calling these side-by-side environments A and B, until someone pointed out that if the application broke and it happened to be deployed in the B environment, the first question would be “Why weren’t you using the A environment?” Because clearly A is better than B! We needed labels for the domains that didn’t have an obvious hierarchy, and we settled on colours. If your domains are called Blue, Green, Orange, Yellow, etc. then there isn’t an obviously “best” one. We avoided having a Red domain because that just sounded dangerous. (“You were running in RED??”)

## Appendix
