0. Journal/2024-08-09.md, before:

# 2024-08-09 Fri

## Log

[[Domain Driven Design]]
+ ![DDD Talk by AHL](https://youtu.be/6nrRfCkeAKU)
+ ddd is for developers, not architects
+ 1919, pre ddd
	+ BAUHAUS - art and architecture school by Walter Gropius
	+ made diverse physical things
	+ "Form follows function"
		+ the design of the thing follows directly from the problem, the needs of the user.
+ 2003, The Blue Book -- DDD by Eric Evans
	+ has both small hands on stuff as well as large design stuff
	+ "Put the model to work"
		+ to be able to solve a problem in software, focus on the actual complexity of the problem itself. Not an abstracted view of it.
		+ Take the understanding of the business problem and put that into software
+ Ubiquitous Language
	+ to avoid a breakdown in communication between business and engineering.
	+ the code must contain the ubiquitous language
+ Model Driven Design
	+ Problem: the shared language does not flow all the way to the code
	+ Solution: tie the code directly to the model, look for drifts ("fractures") and fix them
+

Commit message:

Backup: 2024-08-09 16:55:46
Affected files:
0. Journal/2024-08-09.md
Attachments/Pasted image 20240809165346.png
Attachments/Pasted image 20240809165459.png
Attachments/Pasted image 20240809165530.png

0. Journal/2024-08-09.md, after:

# 2024-08-09 Fri

## Log

[[Domain Driven Design]]
+ ![DDD Talk by AHL](https://youtu.be/6nrRfCkeAKU)
+ ddd is for developers, not architects
+ 1919, pre ddd
	+ BAUHAUS - art and architecture school by Walter Gropius
	+ made diverse physical things
	+ "Form follows function"
		+ the design of the thing follows directly from the problem, the needs of the user.
+ 2003, The Blue Book -- DDD by Eric Evans
	+ has both small hands on stuff as well as large design stuff
	+ "Put the model to work"
		+ to be able to solve a problem in software, focus on the actual complexity of the problem itself. Not an abstracted view of it.
		+ Take the understanding of the business problem and put that into software
+ Ubiquitous Language
	+ to avoid a breakdown in communication between business and engineering.
	+ the code must contain the ubiquitous language
+ Model Driven Design
	+ Problem: the shared language does not flow all the way to the code
	+ Solution: tie the code directly to the model, look for drifts ("fractures") and fix them
	+ wherever you are "translating", you're doing it wrong.
+ Modules AKA packages
	+ Packages have domain meaning
	+ Problem: Cognitive overload in codebase
	+ Solution: Modularize, but keep using the domain to identify and name the modules
	+ don't name it `utils`
+ Entities (aka Reference Objects)
	+ Problem: Representing the _identity and lifecycle_ of key domain elements in the model
	+ Solution: Focus on both explicitly, leave the rest of the work to other parts of the model
+ Aggregates
	+ Problem: Keeping closely associated but separate domain-things consistent when creating/saving/retrieving
	+ Solution: Treat them as a unit, control access from a single entry point, minimize other relationships
	+ These are basically microservices.
+ Bounded Contexts
	+ Problem: we have more than one model. How to keep it separate and distinct?
	+ Solution: draw a distinct boundary around each model. Keep it clear what is, and what isn't in a specific model
+ Context Map
	+ to map across bounded contexts
	+ ![[Pasted image 20240809165346.png]]
+ DDD map
	+ ![[Pasted image 20240809165530.png]]
	+
